Acd 843 (#63)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: Payments/Operation/01_ManageAuthorizations.md

[!!LIST (Authorizations)](../UserInterface/01a_ListAuthorizations.md)

> # Monitor authorizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Manage authorizations
```
Monitor oder Manage? Vgl. alle Dateinamen in TOC.
Ich würde bei Manage bleiben, da wir immer es so nennen. Dafür hat man auch "Check" procedure.

Author: Man monitort hier aber

An authorization transaction is the permission that your company is allowed to capture money from the customer via a payment service provider. The processing of the authorization transactions works as follows: 

> -   The payment service provider creates an authorization transaction, when a customer presses the *Pay now* button during the order process.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The payment service provider creates an authorization transaction when a customer presses the *Pay now* button during the order process.   
```

> - The payment provider sends then the authorization transaction to the *ActindoCore1 Platform*.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The payment provider sends then the authorization transaction to the *Actindo Core1 Platform*.    
```

Author: Done

> - In addition, the shop system creates an ID for this transaction.  

Reviewer: Vielleicht dieser Punkt in der Erste zusammenfügen? Wenn ich es richtig im Video verstehe, sind es eher 3 Schritte:
- Kunde bestellt im Shop, Shop macht eine Autorhisierung und schickt die Bestellungsinfo mit Authorisierungssnr. an Actindo
- PSP erstellt auch seinerseits Authorisierungsnr. und schickt auch an Actindo
- Actindo kann beide anhand der Authorisation Nr. miteinander verknüpfen

Author: Die Nummern kommen von zwei verschiedenen Akteuren

- Actindo links both.   

> For Actindo, the authorization transaction serves as a reference to a payment made by a customer.   

Reviewer: Eine Authorisierung ist noch keine Zahlung, es ist eine Reservierung des Betrages.

Author: Done

> You can use this procedure to display all incoming authorization transactions of a payment service provider. You can check for communication errors between Actindo and the payment service provider that has been caused in a termination of a workflow, for example. In addition, if applicable, you can change the status of a transaction to start continuing further processing or to end it.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this procedure to display all incoming authorization transactions of a payment service provider. You can check for communication errors between Actindo and the payment service provider that have led to the termination of a workflow, for example. In addition, if applicable, you can change the status of a transaction to start continuing further processing or to end it.    
```

Author: done

> 

Reviewer: You can check for communication errors between Actindo and the payment service provider that has been caused in a termination of a workflow, for example. In addition, if applicable, you can change the status of a transaction to start continuing further processing or to end it. 

Ich bin mir nicht sicher, ob das so stimmt.

If everything works fine with the posting of a payment, you do not need to monitor the *Authorizations* menu entry. In case of errors you can capture, cancel, or void an authorization transaction manually.   
> [Info] You can only change the status of an authorization transaction, but not any data.

> 

Reviewer: Ich denke, das stimmt nicht ganz. Man kann die Logs für Info über Kommunikation PSP-Actindo prüfen, also alle Kommunikationsschritte, nicht nur die Fehler. Wenn ein Fehler passiert, stoppt der Workflow an der Stelle, wo der Fehler passiert ist, aber ich würde nicht sagen, es ist "terminated". Für mich hört sich endgültig an. 
Man kann auch Capture, Cancel und Void aus anderen Gründen manuell tätigen, nicht unbedingt wegen eines Fehlers im Workflow, wenn ich das richtig verstanden habe. Vielleicht eher sagen, dass Authorisierung und Capture (und alle weitere Schritte) automatisch über den Workflow verlaufen, man kann aber, wenn nötig, diese Vorgänge auch manuell durchführen.

Author: Soll Stefan entscheiden, ich glaube nicht, dass diese Vorgänge absichtlich manuell durchzuführen wären

## Check authorization transaction

> An authorization transaction provides numerous payment-related details, which may vary depending on the payment service provider settings. To decide, whether you can manually capture, cancel, or void an authorization transaction, you need to check its details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

An authorization transaction provides numerous payment-related details, which may vary depending on the payment service provider settings. To decide, whether you can manually capture, cancel, or void an authorization transaction, you need to check its details.
```
Leerzeile fehlt. Prüfe bitte "Line spacing" im ESG.

Author: done

#### Prerequisites

- At least one connection has been created, see [Create a connection](../Integration/01_ManageConnections.md#create-a-connection).
- At least one authorization transaction has been created.

> - It is recommended that you have added the *Status ID* column to your view so that you are able to sort or filter for specific statuses. 

Reviewer: Das ist kein Prerequisite. Das kann man, z.B., unter dem jeweiligen Schritt als Info angeben.

> - It is recommended that you have added the *Status ID* column to your view so that you are able to sort or filter for specific statuses. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is recommended that you have added the *Status ID* column to your view so that you are able to sort or filter for specific statuses. 
```
Das ist kein Prerequisite. Das kann man, z.B., unter dem entsprechenden Schritt als Info angeben.

#### Procedure

*Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST*

> ![Authorizations](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/LISTAuthorizations.png "[Authorizations]")

Reviewer: Leerzeile zwischen Pfad und Screenshot fehlt

Author: Done

> 1. Check the Authorization transaction status in the *Status* column. The status displays the current stage in the payment process. You can use the status ID prefixed below to filter the list. The following statuses are available: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the authorization transaction status in the *Status* column. The status displays the current stage in the payment process. You can use the status ID prefixed below to filter the list. The following statuses are available: 
```

Author: done

    - **1 - Preparing**  

>         The transaction has been created, but is not yet transferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The transaction has been created but is not yet transferred.
```

Author: Done

    - **2 - Unconfirmed**   

>         A refund is reserved but not yet released by an Actindo user. This status is relevant for some functions only, for example, the cancellations and chargebacks.

Reviewer: Hier reden wir über Authorisierungen, deswegen verstehe ich nicht ganz, was hier ein Refund erwähnt wird. Refund

    - **3 - Success**  

>         Actindo has got the response from the service payment provider, that the transfer was successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Actindo has got the response from the service payment provider, that the transfer was successful.
```

Author: Done

    - **4 - Failure**   

>         The payment service provider has received the request, but it cannot process it. If available for the connection, the status information field provides further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The payment service provider has received the request, but it cannot process it. If available for the connection, the *Status information* column provides further information.
```

Author: done

    - **5 - Error**   

>        Errors have been occurred during transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       Errors have occurred during transfer.
```

Author: stefan hat von transfer gesprochten

Reviewer: Prüfe bitte noch das Verb (have been ocurred -> have occured)

    - **6 - Void**   
       The transaction has been voided, see [Void authorization transaction](01_ManageAuthorizations.md#void-authorization-transaction).

>     

Reviewer: Die Nummern (Status ID) kommen nur vor, wenn die Status ID Spalte eingeblendet ist. Hier könnte man evtl. die Info der Statud ID Spalte erwähnen. 
Andererseits, die "available statuses", die in der Spalte Status vorkommen, haben daher keine Nummer davor. Ich würde daher die Info zu den Nummern (Status ID) in der Beschreibung packen, also:
- Preparing
The transaction has been created but is not yet transferred. This status has the status ID 1. (oder sowas).
 ...

Author: bisschen unübersichtlich

> 2. Click on the authorization transaction to see the details.   

Author: siehe https://actindo.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/56786966/Standard+phrases+and+wording

>     The sub-tabs of the transaction are opened.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The *Authorization "Authorization ID"* view is displayed.   
```
So haben wir immer dieses View genannt (auch z.B. in Fulfillment, Dispatch note "Dispatch note ID"), eigentlich sollte es reintheoretisch ""Autorization ID "Authorization ID"" heißen, aber sieht nicht so schön aus. Hmm, der Grund ist, dieses ID ist eigentlich das vom System vergebenen ID für diese Entität (Authorisierung in diesem Fall). Man kann die Nummer daher über die ID Spalte suchen und so die Entität finden.

Author: done

>     *Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST > Select Authorization transaction*  

Author: done

    ![Authorization attributes and logs](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/CheckAttributes.png "[Authorization attributes and logs]")

3. Check the attributes and logs of the transaction. For detailed information, see the following:
   - [Authorizations &ndash; Attributes](../UserInterface/01a_ListAuthorizations.md#authorizations-–-attributes)

>    - [Authorizations &ndash; Logs](../UserInterface/01a_ListAuthorizations.md#authorizations-–-logs)

Reviewer: Der Links zu UI (List Authorization) ist schon oben aufgeführt. Das kommt nachher in Related content auf der Webseite. 
Hier geht es eher darum, was der Kunde hier checken kann/soll, um eine Entscheidung zu treffen. Welche Details von allen Verfügbaren kann der Kunde prüfen (welche sind interessant)?
Als Idee kannst du bei Fulfillment gucken: https://github.com/Actindo-AG/Documentation/blob/main/Fulfillment/Operation/02_CheckShipment.md

Auf jeden Fall als Procedure weiter beschreiben und, wenn er beide Reiter anklicken und prüfen soll, in separaten Schritten (und mit separaten Screenshots) beschreiben.

Author: Es ist vielleicht ein bisschen überdesignt, dafür ein eigenes Topic anzulegen. Procedure beschrieben

> 4. Return to the LIST and decide how to proceed with the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Return to the list of authorizations and decide how to proceed with the transaction.
```

Author: done

## Capture authorization transaction

After you have checked an authorization transaction that could not be processed by the workflow, you can capture the transaction manually, so that the order process can be continued.

#### Prerequisites

> - The status of an authorization transaction is **not** "Success". In this case, further processing has already been continued.<!---Stimmt das oder gibt es noch mehr?-->   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status of an authorization transaction is **not** "Success". In this case, further processing has already been continued.<!---Stimmt das oder gibt es noch mehr?-->   
```
Wenn nur ein prerequisite, kein bullet point.

Author: done

#### Procedure
*Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST*

![Capture authorization transaction](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/ChangeAuthorization.png "[Capture authorization transaction]")   

> 1. Check the authorization transaction you want to capture, see [Check authorization transaction](./01_ManageAuthorization.md#check-authorization-transaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the authorization transaction you want to capture, see [Check authorization transaction](#check-authorization-transaction).
```

2. Select the authorization transaction you want to capture by clicking the checkbox on the left.   
    The editing toolbar is displayed.

> 3. Click the [Capture] button.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the [CAPTURE] button.    
```

Author: Done

>    A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the authorization transaction has changed to "Success".   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the authorization transaction has changed to **Success**.   
```

Author: Done

>    You can now follow up this case under the menu entry *Payments and captures*. <!---Stefan ist das richtig?--> 

Reviewer: Vielleicht kann man hier erwähnen, was Stefan geklärt hat: Eine neue Entität mit der selben Original reference ist erstellt und dann unter "Payments and captures" aufgeführt... (Also, der Status hier bezieht sich nur auf die Authorisierung. Wenn die Authosierung erfolgreich ist, wird sie dann "abgeschlossen" und daraus ein Payment/Capture erzeugt).

   
  

## Cancel authorization transaction

> After you have checked an authorization transaction that could not be processed by the workflow, you can cancel the transaction manually, so that the order is cancelled both at Actindo and at the payment service provider. Actindo will then automatically inform the payment service provider about the cancellation. The customer will get his or her money back.

Reviewer: Wenn ich es richtig verstanden habe, wurde das Geld noch nicht abgebucht, sondern nur reserviert, daher "The customer will get his or her money back" stimmt nicht ganz hier.

Author: Done

#### Prerequisites
- The status of an authorization transaction is "Failure" or "Error". 
- The authorization transaction has not been captured before.

#### Procedure

*Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST*

![Cancel authorization transaction](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/ChangeAuthorization.png "[Cancel authorization transaction]")

> 1. Identify the communication issue that led to the error. To do this, check the authorization transaction you want to cancel, see [Check authorization transaction](01_ManageAuthorization.md#check-authorization-transaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Identify the communication issue that led to the error. To do this, check the authorization transaction you want to cancel, see [Check authorization transaction](#check-authorization-transaction).
```
Error und Failure sind nicht gleich. Error zeigt ein Kommunikationsproblem, aber Failure nicht.

2. Select the authorization transaction you want to cancel by clicking the checkbox on the left.   
    The editing toolbar is displayed.

> 3. Click the [Cancel] button.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the [CANCEL] button.   
```

Author: DONE

   A confirmation message is displayed. 

>    The payment service provider gets the information about the cancellation of the authorization transaction. The payment of the customer, blocked before by the payment service provider, is freed, and the customer get his or her money back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The payment service provider gets the information about the cancellation of the authorization transaction. The payment of the customer, blocked before by the payment service provider, is freed/unblocked again.
```

   

## Void authorization transaction

> You can void an authorization transaction, if you want to disable the transaction for the Actindo database. For example, for whatever reason the same transaction has been posted twice. In this case, you can void one of these transactions and continue the order process with the other transaction.

Reviewer: Generell zu "disable the/a transaction": Ich finde "disable" schwer hier, da wir es in Verbindung mit Connection verwenden und hat eine ganz andere Bedeutung. Wie wäre es mit "invalidate/validate", wenn wir über transactions sprechen? (Du hast "valid" schon in diesem Bezug verwendet).

Author: done

> > [Info] The payment service provider will not be informed about changing the status to "Void". It is only done to clear the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Info] The payment service provider will not be informed about changing the status to **Void**. It is only done to clear the database.
```

Author: soll Stefan entscheiden

#### Prerequisites

> The status of an authorization transaction is "Failure" or "Error".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status of an authorization transaction is "Failure" or "Error".
```
```suggestion
The status of an authorization transaction is **Failure** or **Error**.
```

Author: ne , eben nicht

#### Procedure

*Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST*

> ![Void authorization transaction](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/ChangeAuthorization.png "[Capture authorization transaction]")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Void authorization transaction](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/ChangeAuthorization.png "[Void authorization transaction]")
```

> 1. Identify the communication issue that led to the error. To do this, check the authorization transaction you want to void, see [Check the authorization transaction](./01_ManageAuthorizations.md#check-authorization-transaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Identify the communication issue that led to the error. To do this, check the authorization transaction you want to void, see [Check the authorization transaction](#check-authorization-transaction).
```

2. Select the authorization transaction to be voided by clicking the checkbox on the left.   
    The editing toolbar is displayed.

> 3. Click the [Void] button.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the [VOID] button.   
```

Author: Done

>    A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the authorization transaction has changed to "Void". It is no longer valid for the Actindo database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the authorization transaction has changed to **Void**. The transaction is no longer valid for the Actindo database.
```

In case of errors or failures, there may be a general issue that is caused by the payment service provider, by the shop, or by Actindo. In this case, contact the according business partner, so that the issue can be solved.

#### Prerequisites

- At least one connection has been created, see [Create PSP connection](../Integration/01_ManageConnection.md#create-psp-connection).
- At least one authorization transaction has been created.

 > [Info] It is recommended to add the following columns to your view to get the required information and to better filter and sort the entries: *Status ID* and *Status information* (if applicable).    

#### Procedure

*Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST*

![Authorizations](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/LISTAuthorizations.png "[Authorizations]")

1. Check the authorization transaction status in the *Status* column. The status displays the current stage in the payment process. 

>    > [INFO] You can use the status ID prefixed below to filter the list. The following statuses are available:   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > [Info] You can use the status ID prefixed below to filter the list. The following statuses are available:   
```

Author: done

    - **1 - Preparing**  
        The transaction has been created but is not yet transferred.
    - **2 - Unconfirmed**   
        A refund is requested but not yet released by an Actindo user. This status is relevant for some functions only, for example, the cancellations and chargebacks.
    - **3 - Success**  
        Actindo as well as the payment service provider has processed the transaction successfully.
        You can now follow up this case under the menu entry *Payments and captures*. <!---Stefan ist das richtig?-->
    - **4 - Failure**   
        The payment service provider has received the request, but rejected it. If available for the connection, the "Status information" column provides further information.
    - **5 - Error**   
       Errors have been occurred during transfer.
    - **6 - Void**   

>        The transaction has been voided, see [Void authorization transaction](01_ManageAuthorizations.md#void-authorization-transaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       The transaction has been voided, see [Void authorization transaction](#void-authorization-transaction).
```
Innerhalb von einer Datei braucht man nur den Link mit #...

Author: done

    
2. Click the transaction to see the details.   
    The *"Authorization ID"* view is displayed. The *Attributes* tab is preselected by default.   
     
    ![Attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/AuthorizationAttributes.png "[Attributes]")

3. Check the list of attributes, for example, whether the required fields are filled. For detailed information on fields, see [Authorizations &ndash; Attributes](../UserInterface/01a_ListAuthorizations.md#authorization-–-attributes).

4. Click the *Logs* tab.   
The *Logs* tab is displayed and shows the messages that have been created for this issue. 

   ![Logs](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/AuthorizationLogs.png "[Logs]")

5. Check the logs, for example, if there is a general communication issue.
For detailed information on fields and functions, see [LIST (Logging)](../UserInterface/07a_ListLogging.md).

> 5. Return to the list of authorizations and decide how to proceed with the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Return to the list of authorizations and decide how to proceed with the transaction.
```

Author: done

## Capture authorization transaction

After you have checked an authorization transaction that could not be processed by the workflow, you can capture the transaction manually, so that the order process can be continued.

#### Prerequisites

The status of an authorization transaction is **not** "Success". In case of success, further processing has already been continued.<!---Stimmt das oder gibt es noch mehr?-->   

#### Procedure

*Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST*

![Authorizations](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/LISTAuthorizations.png "[Authorizations]")

> 

Author: done

    The editing toolbar is displayed.
3. Click the [CAPTURE] button.    
   A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the authorization transaction has changed to **Success**.   
   By using the *Original reference*, you can now follow up this case under the menu entry *Payments and captures*. <!---Stefan ist das richtig?--> 
   
  

## Cancel authorization transaction

After you have checked an authorization transaction that could not be processed by the workflow, you can cancel the transaction manually, so that the order is cancelled both at Actindo and at the payment service provider. Actindo will then automatically inform the payment service provider about the cancellation. The payment of the customer, blocked before by the payment service provider, is freed.

#### Prerequisites

- The status of an authorization transaction is **Failure** or **Error**. 
- The authorization transaction has not been captured before.

#### Procedure

*Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST*

![Authorizations](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/LISTAuthorizations.png "[Authorizations]")

> 

Reviewer: Line spacing

Author: done

    The editing toolbar is displayed.
3. Click the [CANCEL] button.   
   A confirmation message is displayed. 
   The payment service provider gets the information about the cancellation of the authorization transaction and the payment of the customer is freed.  
   You can now follow up this case under the *Cancellations and Chargebacks* menu entry.
   
   

## Void authorization transaction

You can void an authorization transaction, if you want to invalidate the transaction for the Actindo database. For example, for whatever reason the same transaction has been posted twice. In this case, you can void one of these transactions and continue the order process with the other transaction.
> [Info] The payment service provider will not be informed about changing the status to **Void**. It is only done to clear the database from faulty entries.

#### Prerequisites

The status of an authorization transaction is **Failure** or **Error**.

#### Procedure

*Payments > Authorizations > Tab LIST*

![Authorizations](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/Authorizations/LISTAuthorizations.png "[Authorizations]")

> 

Reviewer: Line spacing

Author: done
